once way back in the day when my ex-wife
was a university professor here in
Canada I went to a meeting with some of
the keener students of anthropology
these are people plan to go on do
master's degrees and PhDs in the
discipline of anthropology and there was
a young man not so much younger than
myself but I happened to be married to a
professor and he was talking about his
lack of self-confidence his misgivings
in trying to write peer-reviewed
articles write articles to be published
in academic forms and he said this is an
interesting thing to say he said you
know I feel like I don't know anything I
don't have anything to offer in this
article except that I read these three
books and I said to him don't you
realize that's the most precious and
that's the most valuable thing of all
because think about all the people who
do not have time to read those three
books and think about how really
valuable it is for them to hear you
compare and analyze those books and
ultimately there's something there's
something something impalpable and
profound that's brought to that
comparison by you because you're the one
doing the work you're the one doing the
analysis right Hey look I got I got a
real palpable example here this huge
stack of paper this is just three books
this is three books all dealing with the
question of the relationship between
China and Central Asia so we're talking
about China and its expansion West to
include places like Sid yang and then
Tajikistan Turkmenistan Uzbekistan that
part of the world in relation to China
if I read these three books and I really
put my heart into it
I take notes I pay attention I'm really
trying to learn who's trying to learn
this history I'm trying to learn the
politics okay how many people on planet
Earth
will be more of an expert than I am in
this specific topic the relationship
between China at Central Asia I know
you'd like to believe that there were
just thousands of people out there who
have the
to read these two books it's a very
heavy stack and I know you'd like to
believe that the Government of Canada
and the government of England and the
United Nations all employ huge numbers
of scholars and experts who are keeping
up this they don't exist
okay the real level of expertise in any
one area of specialization it's boils
down to remarkably few people even in
the year 2020 you will find but even if
I am much less of an expert in in this
topic okay I have the self-confidence to
come on YouTube and make a video talking
about these political questions why just
because I am the guy who read those
three books okay
and in reading those two books it
doesn't make me an expert but what I can
present to you in the comparison
contrast and analysis of those three
books it's gonna reveal something about
myself there's something I add to it
even in the narrowest reading possible
even if the only thing I add to it is
what I'm taking away because I have to
choose the short selections of
quotations and themes and topics that
I'm gonna discuss here I can't talk
about each book from cover to cover
right even if that's it it's selection
and omission that still is something I'm
contributing to this creative process
and my perspective and what I care about
and what seems important to me that may
be very different from what seems
important to the small number of people
who are employees of the United Nations
let's be real the small number of people
who are employees of the CIA who study
this this kind of thing right I may be
able to bring something really really
valuable too right so obviously I'm
making this video partly to encourage
people in my own audience to get engaged
be creative make their own content this
way you and you and you all right that
what you can do just by reading three
books on a given topic really matters
and I feel this is more important now
than ever because print media is dead
there was a time 20 years ago when I
would have been talking about the
importance of us getting together and
having some kind of publication some
kind of small magazine or review or
Journal what have you that's dead that's
gone that's over what we have now that's
more immediate and more emotionally
porous and more engaging is this it's
YouTube and it's going to be whatever
other social media platforms rise up to
replace YouTube regardless you know and
it's wonderful because you get to share
your voice you get to share your what
you've learned you get to share your
uncertainty you can add as many
footnotes or as few as you like right um
this is an opportunity for each of us
and it can be empowering but most people
most of the time experience this as
denigrating humiliating and disempower
right because the voices are always out
there the voice is asking who do you
think you are who do you think you are
don't you know who I think I am and you
may have been through that just a few
times too many with being denigrated and
insulted by your own parents by your
brothers and sisters by classmates by
people at school what by your teachers
teachers can be absolutely some of the
worst terms of being discouraging to you
in having intellectual ambitions right
and those same people will be
encouraging you to waste your time
playing the piano playing the violin
watching movies right kindling that
sense of curiosity so that instead of
just being idle curiosity like hey you
know what I'm interested how did Cindy
yang even become a province of China
anyway how did this whole political
situation even begin that people are
talking about now like oh yeah the
Chinese are torturing Muslims there's
like where is that where does that come
from what does it really mean what's
what's really going on here right I've
got some curiosity right but I'm gonna
Kindle that I'm gonna burn that into
well build that into a fire right I'm
gonna actually do some research I'm
gonna gain some acumen and insight and
you know if you do this if you take on
these kinds of projects all right you
may feel embarrassed
you may feel humiliated you may feel
that you are too stupid
you may feel though you may feel the way
while you're doing the reading you may
feel that way when you're watching the
YouTube video back afterwards you may
think you know what I'm not very good at
this I'm smart enough I'm not
right now I don't have enough to
contribute and then you can get
motivated to do better then you can see
what the problem is you can hear it you
can feel it right and no other medium is
like that I think it's very easier I
mean deluded about your own greatness in
the written form and when you got to sit
there and watch the video and hear
yourself explain back what it is that's
important out of these three books
you've read on any topic I think it's a
tremendous incentive we would have
record the video ten times record it
once stop come back and do with six
months later even you know let you let
you collect your own thoughts reflect on
it if you're stupid wouldn't you want to
know would you want to see it would you
want to feel it wouldn't want to figure
out what the problem is and try to fix
it because if you're too dumb to do this
kind of analytical and creative work
yourself how is that going to change
it's not gonna change
but other people denigrating you and
humiliating you and insulting you and
telling you who do you think you are
right it's gonna come from you having
some kind of positive motivation to
gauge you this analytical and creative
work you engaging in active research to
present an informed opinion right and
then you've got to be self-critical
you've got to figure out what your week
is or what were the parts of that video
I created that summer that didn't make
any sense when I was reading these books
what was it I couldn't understand you
can be honest with yourself about that
also right you can be honest about your
about your own doubts I met up with my
my half brother once he was my gay
half-brother only one of my
half-brothers is Kay and um I'll always
remember him saying to me in such a
snide discouraging you know a terrible
way him just saying to me oh you'll
never do it you'll you'll never move to
Cambodia oh you'll never you'll never
study the camp butow oh you taught
you'll never do and you know I replied
to him
I suppose in my own snide but
self-confident way have you met me you
know you you think you know who I am
ha you think you know my limits but I
haven't yet begun to push against my own
limits you know and you know think about
what he's really saying to me is he
saying that I'm too stupid or is he
saying that I'm a coward and you know
what for some of you I'm not here
recommending anyone else goes to
Cambodia and do what I did I'm not
recommending any of you should go to
Cambodia and do research and
humanitarian work and study learn I am
NOT people sometimes write to me asking
for advice on that and most time I tell
them probably not for you probably not a
good idea but here's my point if it
turns out I am too stupid to study the
Cambodian language if it turns out I am
too much of a coward to survive in the
rough and tumble of pnom Penh Cambodia
wouldn't I want to find that out for
myself wouldn't I want to probe my
limits wouldn't I want to test my own
weaknesses because it's only by noticing
them that I can know them and feel them
and move beyond them ok
people think a book is something that
sits inert on a shelf and it's not it
really is an opportunity for you to
profoundly challenge who you are and
improve and move beyond that and people
talk about this stuff like it only
happens when you're 14 years old like
you go through one kind of
transformation and then that carries you
to retirement all right there was a time
when I knew nothing about the politics
and history and religion of Cambodia I
remember the first time I saw the word
Cambodia in a comic book and I asked my
father about it as a child we are all
born ignorant and there was a time when
I didn't know the difference between
China and Japan and there was a time
when I didn't even know Buddhism came
from India and didn't come from Japan in
the first place there I'm cursed with a
really crisp memory of all the phases of
ignorance and went through in life okay
and right now right now I am as ignorant
as any one of you I'm as ignorant as the
most ignorant person in my audience
about the relationship between China
in Central Asia okay I'm challenging
myself I'm gonna change I'm not just
resting on the fact that I built up
expertise in Southeast Asia but as a man
wants to know okay
I'm aware of my own ignorance I'm
challenging my own endurance I'm
challenging myself so I'm taking this
time on YouTube to challenge you all so
positively don't let people denigrate
you don't lose don't lose that appetite
don't lose that capacity to take your
curiosity and Kindle it into something
much more meaningful and productive make
your own reading productive because in
the end what you're discovering are not
mere facts you're discovering who you
really are you're building up your own
acumen you're building up your own
potential you are deciding determining
and feeling out who it is you want to be
in your building in brick-by-brick okay
it may seem meaningless isn't it just is
there just another set of facts you know
gee I don't know
I already know a lot about the history
of France and Germany and Canada and
Cambodia and Laos and Thailand we can
make a list of all the countries where
I've already studied their history and
their politics and they wish to know
what
why would I challenge myself why
wouldn't I now just wrap coasts from age
40 to age 70 on what it is I already
know why not just recycle the same
anecdotes about Cambodia right for me
this is the difference between being
alive and being dead all right
life living intellectual growth it comes
from doubt self doubt being honest with
yourself about what you don't know and
then challenge yourself always to go
beyond what does you think you know
right and the game everyone else is
playing in shoring up their own ego and
in discouraging you and denigrating you
and saying to you hey who do you think
you are right that's asking you to
instead leave that static life that
living death or what it is you already
know becomes your identity and you just
coast along and the education you've
already got the facts you're already
familiar with from too
a until retirement right guys you could
throw a dart at the map we're all born
infinitely ignorant okay
and this this process this process of
learning all right
it never ends it never ends until the
day you die the question of what kind of
person you want to be it's a question
you've got to answer with every minute
of every day now now now now